IDENTIFYING INFORMATION :
Article Name - Automatic Object Recognition from Satellite Images
               using Artificial Neural Network.
Date of Publication : 10.6.14

    The article was published in International Journal of Computer Applications.

    Purpose of Study - To detect waterbodies in a satellite image. Finding methods
which can efficiently and accurately detect waterbodies in a GIS image.

        The nature of the study is an experimental study.

        The authors of the paper used Artificial Neural Networks for training
the model and tested the model on some unknown test data and measured accuracy
with the help of mean squared error(MSE). It is an application specific theor-
itical model, but the authors also implemented their algorithm to measure the
accuracy.

RESEARCH DESIGN & METHODOLOGY :
    First, the authors collected training from some domain experts. Then they
pushed those data into a Multi-layer Perceptron (MLP) Training module.
    In MLP they had implemented 3 things, 1) feed forward, 2) compute-gradient
and 3) weight-updation. After that this would generate a weight file for which
the difference between computed output and the actual output is minimum.
    Now, this weight file and the test data are feeded to the MLP model for
generation of the output.

    Authors have pointed out that there are several parameters which can affect
the learning process such as : no. of hidden layers in neural network model, nodes
in each hidden layers, threshold value, learning rate, co-efficient of activation
function.

    Now if we give any unknown satellite image of a terrain, the model can detect
if any waterbody is present in the image or not.

    The only issue is the no. of training data and testing data. The authors have
trained the model with only 3000 images.

INTERPRETATION of FINDINGS :

    The authors of this paper has pointed out that use of MLP is giving very high
accuracy(99.54%) on these type of problem domains. But they have not given any interpretations
if this method can be generalized to any kind of object detection in a satellite
image. They are ensuring the detection accuracy of waterbody in satellite Images
would be high in this method.

VALUE of the STUDY :

    The problem addressed by the authors may not have such a high need in current
situation but it can become a ground-level work based on which many complex problem
can be solved, e.g, detecting bunkers in a war-zone area. 
